---
title: 麦克白摘录
date: 2023-12-12 20:49:06
permalink: /pages/4c55ca/
categories:
  - 读书
tags:
  - 
author: 
  name: yellowandgreen
  link: https://github.com/yellowandgreen
---
## Macbeth

1. And fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling,
   Show'd like a rebel's whore: but all's too weak:
   For brave Macbeth--well he deserves that name--
   Disdaining fortune, with his brandish'd steel,
   Which smoked with bloody execution,
   Like valour's minion carved out his passage
   Till he faced the slave;

2. **BANQUO**

   > Were such things here as we do speak about?
   > Or have we eaten on the insane root
   > That takes the reason prisoner?

3. **BANQUO**

   > That trusted home
   > Might yet enkindle you unto the crown,
   > Besides the thane of Cawdor. But 'tis strange:
   > And oftentimes, to win us to our harm,
   > The instruments of darkness tell us truths,
   > Win us with honest trifles, to betray's
   > In deepest consequence.
   > Cousins, a word, I pray you.

4. Present fears
   Are less than horrible imaginings:
   My thought, whose murder yet is but fantastical,
   Shakes so my single state of man that function
   Is smother'd in surmise, and **nothing is**
   **But what is not.**

5. Fair is foul, and foul is fair:

   Hover through the fog and filthy air.
   
6. It is too full o' the milk of human kindness
   To catch the nearest way: thou wouldst be great;
   Art not without ambition, but without
   The illness should attend it

7. Thy letters have transported me beyond
   This ignorant present, and I feel now
   The future in the instant.

8. To beguile the time,
   Look like the time; 
   
9. **BANQUO**

   > Hold, take my sword. There's husbandry in heaven;
   > Their candles are all out. Take thee that too.
   > A heavy summons lies like lead upon me,
   > And yet I would not sleep: merciful powers,
   > Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature
   > Gives way to in repose!

10. **MACBETH**

    > Methought I heard a voice cry 'Sleep no more!
    > Macbeth does murder sleep', the innocent sleep,
    > Sleep that knits up the ravell'd sleeve of care,
    > The death of each day's life, sore labour's bath,
    > Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course,
    > Chief nourisher in life's feast,--

11. **MACBETH**

    > Whence is that knocking?
    > How is't with me, when every noise appals me?
    > What hands are here? ha! they pluck out mine eyes.
    > Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood
    > Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather
    > The multitudinous seas in incarnadine,
    > Making the green one red.

12. **MACBETH**

    > Had I but died an hour before this chance,
    > I had lived a blessed time; for, from this instant,
    > There 's nothing serious in mortality:
    > All is but toys: renown and grace is dead;
    > The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees
    > Is left this vault to brag of.

13. 

## more

